The limits of input or outcome indicators
The indicators selected for each target are either input or outcome indicators, but these rarely connect. Through this omission some key meanings, central to the values of the goal and target, are lost. Thus target 4.1 stresses free and compulsory education, a value articulated by GCE and many in the EFA movement in the run up to the Incheon World Education Forum. But the indicator notes only outcomes of schooling. No measure has been identified of whether or not schooling is free, a key omission. While the thematic indicators do propose to work on this, the omission from the global indicator list is concerning. Target 4.3 talks of affordable technical, vocational and higher education, but this is not captured in the indicator.

Input indicators, which note the numbers or proportions enrolling, attending, undergoing training, the presence of particular kinds of infrastructure or policy, have been selected for five out of eleven global indicators. There is a metonymic assumption that the input or the outcome indicates the processes highlighted in the targets at work. But as many studies show, this is a shaky assumption, at best, and often wrong (Unterhalter, 2018b; Smith, 2016). Input indicators appear to have been selected by the IAEG because there are data on them, not because they are good proxies for the processes of inclusion or quality. For example, target 4A is concerned with education provision that is safe, child friendly, gender sensitive and capable of meeting the needs of children with disabilities. To track this input indicators are suggested for electricity, sanitation, buildings adapted for disabled students and access to the internet. But none of the means of implementation are reducible to these forms of physical infrastructure. There is no conceptual connection to be made between the provision of electricity, sanitation, and the internet, and safe, child friendly and gender sensitive schooling, as extensive literature on these issues highlights (e.g. Parkes, 2015; Parkes et al., 2016). Target 4.7 is concerned with ‘ knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity’ (UN, 2015). The indicator proposes to enumerate the number of curriculum policies, which are to stand as inputs on citizenship, human rights, gender equality and sustainability. The focus of the target is on learners acquiring knowledge and skills, not governments setting down policies, The input indicators, detached from processes and outcomes, fail to fully express the sense of the targets, although a number of studies show the significance of connecting these (Harcourt, 2016; Unterhalter and North, 2017).

There are similar problems of narrowing and omission when outcome indicators are used. Target 4.4 on access to skills partly linked to decent work, is to be assessed by an indicator in one area of skill only – ICT. This is both a narrowing of the concept of skills linked with livelihoods and transitions to adulthood, much debated in the literature (King, 2017) and clearly only one facet of decent work, which is hardly universal. The learning outcomes in literacy and numeracy proposed for Target 4.1 give no sense of the rich notion of quality in the Incheon document and in the literature on this theme (Alexander, 2015; Tikly and Barrett, 2013; World Education Forum, 2015).

It can be seen that the selection of input and outcome indicators has circumscribed a vision of process, connection and developing metrics that might help depict equalities, inclusion and richer meanings of quality.

The problem of equity indicators
The goal and the targets express a vision of equity, but the interpretation of equity in the indicator framework uses a narrow meaning of this concept focusing only on attending to distribution. Equity is portrayed as some kind of numerical relationship (parity or equivalence), but not an undoing of structural inequalities, such as those associated with charging fees for schooling or challenging racial or gender based violence. This narrow notion of inequity, which is concerned to address only the question of how much participation certain groups have in various stages or forms of education, cuts across SDG 4 indicators. For relevant input and outcome indicators levels of gender parity will be tracked. Target 4.5 attempts to go beyond gender parity and identify a number of other axes of disadvantage, attending to disparities in provision between rural/urban, bottom/top wealth quintile and exclusions associated with disability status, indigenous peoples and those in conflict-affected areas ‘as data become available’. However, a huge literature on education and inequalities shows that attending to distributional issues for identified groups is only part of the solution to attending to the problem of discrimination and injustice (e.g. Brighouse and Swift, 2014; Cole, 2017; Carney and Schweisfurth, 2018). Inequalities in education intersect and compound each other, and equal provision may not be adequate provision (Raffo, 2013; Walker and Unterhalter, 2007). Ensuring ‘equal access’ is not simply a matter of enrolling ‘marginalised’ or underserved groups in schools or universities, which might themselves be sites of discrimination and violence (Boni et al., 2016; Parkes, 2015). Building equitable provision entails looking critically at the ways in which education might reproduce inequalities and working in multiple ways to address this at interconnected levels from the classroom up to the administration and policy formulation (Unterhalter and North, 2017).

The indicators for Target 4.5, with their stress only on distributional features of inequity, thus narrows the ambition of the social policy quite dramatically. The equity indicators proposed reflect a much more limited assessment of potential metrics than the range of debate around these issues suggests might be possible.