---
original_file: 2 S.docx
converted_date: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036
source_path: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036\EmmaMaterials\Materials for Students (Word)\2 S.docx
---

# 2 S

Module 2: Sustainable Consumption

## Course Intended Learning Outcomes (CILOs):

By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Demonstrate understanding of sustainable consumption concepts through analysing production processes and economic distributions;

Evaluate corporate sustainability claims analysing evidence and language of critique;

Describe processes and numerical data in spoken and written English to explore sustainable consumption and ethical issues in the cocoa industry;

Understand implied meanings in reading comprehension;

Advocate for ethical improvements in the cocoa industry.

## 1. CONCEPTS

Task 1 – Warm-up

Watch this video about the history of chocolate: https://youtu.be/ibjUpk9Iagk?si=LbTnGV3r6GRdl3yg

Then, take a look at the following flowchart that describes the process of chocolate-making, from the farming of cacao pods to the production of chocolate bars.

The 9-step process below can be divided into manual labour (Steps 1-3) and industrial processing (Steps 4-9), which are done in cacao producing countries and industrialised countries respectively.

Source: Pérez, M., López-Yerena, A., & Vallverdú-Queralt, A. (2020). Traceability, authenticity and sustainability of cocoa and chocolate products: A challenge for the chocolate industry. Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, 62, 1-15. https://doi.org/10.1080/10408398.2020.1819769

1. A flowchart is a diagram which shows the stages of a process. When describing a flowchart, we often use:

In the space below, can you describe the process of chocolate-making according to the flowchart above in 100-150 words? Don’t forget to give your passage a short introduction.

## 2. Sustainable Consumption – Key concepts

Task 2 – Performing a roundtable forum

Let’s assume that a bar of branded, non-artisanal chocolate at the supermarket costs around HK$25. This price should, theoretically, be distributed among the 4 stakeholder groups: cocoa farmers, cocoa traders, chocolate manufacturers, and chocolate retailers.

You will work in small groups of 4. Each person will take a role:

Part A: Individual comments

Think about your role in the chocolate production process and prepare to discuss profit sharing. Consider the following:

What challenges or risks does your role face in the chocolate production process?

What resources do you use, and what are your goals?

Part B: Roundtable forum

Now, discuss how the HK$25 profit from a chocolate bar should be shared among the roles. Your arguments should be persuasive; your aim is to convince the other groups to accept your proposed share of the profits. Consider the following during your discussion:

What does your role contribute to making a HK$25 chocolate bar, and why is it important?

How much of the HK$25 profit do you think your role deserves, and why?

How could the profit distribution be made fairer for all roles in the chocolate industry?

Use the space below to take notes, if necessary.

Task 3 – How are the profits distributed?

The diagram and the table below show how the profit from a HK$25 chocolate bar is distributed among different groups of stakeholders.

Source: World Economic Forum. (2020). World’s bittersweet supply chain in one bittersweet visualization. Retail, Consumer Goods and Lifestyle. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/11/cocoa-chocolate-supply-chain-business-bar-africa-exports/

Breakdown of the costs:

Part A:

With your partner, choose 2 groups of stakeholders above and describe the percentage they share and the amount they earn within the $25 profit in your own words.

Part B:

Did you and your partner use the same methods to describe and report percentages and amounts? In fact, there are various ways to describe and report numerical data. Some of the common methods are:

Using the data description methods suggested above, describe again the percentage and the amount shared and earned by each stakeholder within the $25 profit. Try to use 2 more methods for each set of numerical data to polish your language skills!

## 3. SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION

Task 4 – Cocoa emergency

Read the following excerpt from an article by Kwarteng (2021), an international development and trade analyst.

How much Ghanaian cocoa farmers earn? …and why we need to announce “a cocoa emergency”

To set the context right, the cocoa-chocolate industry is worth US$131bn yet when you break it down, the smallholder cocoa farmers who own est. 4,500,000 cocoa farms in the world with over 36,000,000 dependents are given only 6% to 6.6% of the industry’s ever-growing annual worth/value to share, whereas the rest goes to cocoa processors, chocolate manufacturers and their marketers who are all predominately in the west.

The income of cocoa farmers has been a topical issue among the key actors within the chain due to its consequence for the sustainability of the entire value chain. We define “low Income” as income less than the international poverty line of US$1.90. Particularly in Ghana, low income among cocoa farmers is a big concern because these farmers depend on cocoa for 90% of their primary source of income. In my previous article, we talked about how cocoa farmers are patronised by Fairtrade for the benefit of everyone other than the cocoa farmer with an initial promise of ensuring that farmers gained high incomes to sustain their livelihoods. So, in this article, we tried to find out how much the cocoa farmer earns in Ghana and the consequences of their level of income.

How much income does a Ghanaian cocoa farmer generate in the sector?

So, in Ghana, cocoa farmers unlike orange farmers, don’t determine the price for their sweat. Regardless of the negative effects of external environmental factors like increased cost of inputs, drought, floods, etc., the farmer still has to endure by relying on the price fixed for them. Farmers only have to pray and hope that they receive some increment in price next year, something they are yet to see since the 2016/17 crop year. In Ghana, Cocoa Marketing Company (CMC) is the price fixer and is also the only legal buyer of cocoa beans through licensed buying companies (LBCs) and trader to customers all over the world. This means the farmer can’t sell his/her product even if he/she establishes a cocoa processing plant and needs it as an input. The Ghanaian cocoa farmers receive on average 70% of the price at which the cocoa beans are sold by CMC to buyers. The remaining 30% goes to paying LBCs, transporters of the beans from the farmer’s farm to warehouses, etc. Also, because this price is set at the beginning of the season, it starts to lose its economic value due to inflation which happens throughout the year, hence affecting the actual disposable income of the farmer.

“So, the farmer loses 30% on price and inflation further depletes the remaining.”

In relation to the income generated, the International Labour Rights Forum highlighted that the average net earnings for cultivating a two-hectare cocoa farm in Ghana were estimated at US$2.69 per day. Even though this net earnings of $2.69 may be seen as above the international poverty line of US$1.9, each cocoa farmer is estimated to have an eight-member household, hence individual household members live on $0.33 a day. I guess the cliché and ignorant responses people give are: why do they have such huge family sizes? Why don’t they reduce their family size? In fact, why should they marry to even make babies, when living alone would be living above the poverty line? Interesting. Cocoa farmers do have large family sizes because they rely on them as non-paid labour to supplement the extra labour they require so that they can reduce some of the labour-related costs to be able to foot pay the other costs of production. The income they generate isn’t enough for them to employ an all-paid labour, pay them high wages, pensions, medical allowance, leave with pay, annual pay increase, labour industrial actions, etc. The western world with its claim to hold human rights in high esteem expects all these labour regulations to be existing in the cocoa farms in poor countries, yet it allocates only 6% of the industry’s value to the 6,000,000 cocoa farmers to share. [...]

This low-income situation affects cocoa farmers in diverse ways. These include but not limited: reliance on old cocoa technology, reliance on rainfall and lastly, an unfair phrase “forced labour” which western technocrats and industry players use in defaming the cocoa farmer who is cheated in the value chain as a wicked man, when describing the labour management challenges the cocoa farmers face.

Source:

Kwarteng, K. A. (2021, March 9). How much Ghanaian cocoa farmers earn? …and why we need to announce “A Cocoa Emergency”. The Business & Financial Times. https://thebftonline.com/2021/03/09/how-much-ghanaian-cocoa-farmers-earn-and-why-we-need-to-announce-a-cocoa-emergency/#google_vignette

Part A: Vocabulary Builder

Find these 10 words in the passage and write one synonym for each. These words relate to sustainable consumption and the cocoa industry. Use a dictionary if needed.

Part B: Comprehension Questions

Use the information in the passage to answer the questions below:

## 4. Are big companies genuinely offering help?

Task 5 – Final discussion

Take a look at the following webpage by Nestlé on its use of sustainable cocoa: https://www.madewithNestlé.ca/sustainable-cocoa-sourcing

Consider again Kwarteng’s (2021) article (“How much Ghanaian cocoa farmers earn?”). To put the ideas together, discuss the following with your groupmates:

Do Nestlé’s plans truly address Kwarteng’s concern about farmers’ poverty?

Should Nestlé supplement farmer incomes which Kwarteng says Western firms exploit?

What risks arise if Nestlé ignores Kwarteng’s “cocoa emergency”?

How can consumers use Kwarteng’s $0.33 claim to challenge Nestlé?

After your discussion, nominate 1 representative from your group to report your findings and views to the class.

References

Kwarteng, K. A. (2021, March 9). How much Ghanaian cocoa farmers earn? ... and why we need to announce “a cocoa emergency”. The Business & Financial Times. https://thebftonline.com/2021/03/09/how-much-ghanaian-cocoa-farmers-earn-and-why-we-need-to-announce-a-cocoa-emergency/

Nestlé. (2020, September 4). Cocoa harvesting and processing sustainability. Made with Nestlé: Sustainable cocoa sourcing. https://www.madewithNestlé.ca/sustainable-cocoa-sourcing

Pérez, M., López-Yerena, A., & Vallverdú-Queralt, A. (2020). Traceability, authenticity and sustainability of cocoa and chocolate products: A challenge for the chocolate industry. Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, 62, 1-15. https://doi.org/10.1080/10408398.2020.1819769

Pucciarelli, D. (2016, February 25). The history of chocolate [Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/ibjUpk9Iagk

World Economic Forum. (2020). World’s bittersweet supply chain in one bittersweet visualisation. Retail, Consumer Goods and Lifestyle. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/11/cocoa-chocolate-supply-chain-business-bar-africa-exports/


| Language features | Examples |

| --- | --- |

| a. Sequencing connectors | “Initially,”, “Then,”, “Following this”, “Finally,” etc.

 “Initially, cacao pods are grown and harvested in regions like West Africa and South America by local farmers...” |

| b. Passive voice | “Initially, cacao pods are grown and harvested in regions like West Africa and South America by local farmers.”
“… the dried beans are transported to factories, before being roasted…” |

| c. Comparative structures | “While …”, “Whereas …” etc.

 “Farmers dry beans, whereas factories mould bars”
 “While the early stages take place in the above countries, the later stages shift to other regions…” |




| Cocoa Farmer: | You grow and harvest cacao, relying on manual labour and limited resources |

| --- | --- |

| Cocoa Trader: | You transport and sell beans, managing logistics and market prices. |

| Chocolate Manufacturer: | You process beans into bars, using factories and technology. |

| Chocolate Retailer: | You sell bars to consumers, handling marketing and store costs. |




|  |

| --- |




| Group | Percentage | Amount earned (HKD) |

| --- | --- | --- |

| Chocolate retailers | 44.2% + 4.2% = 48.4% | $12.1 |

| Chocolate manufacturers | 35.2% | $8.8 |

| Cocoa traders | 0.5% + 0.2% + 0.3% + 7.6% = 8.6% | $2.15 |

| Cocoa farmers | 6.6% | $1.65 |

| Government tax | 1.1% | $0.275 |




| Methods | Examples from Table |

| --- | --- |

| Direct Percentage | “Retailers receive 48.4% of the profit.” |

| Fraction / proportion | “Nearly half the profit goes to retailers.” //
“About one-third of the total is earned by manufacturers.” |

| Rounded Figures | “Traders earn roughly 9% of the HK$25.” |

| Currency Amount | “Retailers take HK$12.1, while farmers receive HK$1.65.” |

| Comparison | “Retailers’ share is over seven times that of farmers.” |




| Words from the passage | Synonyms |

| --- | --- |

| consequence (Para 2) |  |

| sustainability (Para 2) |  |

| patronised (Para 2) |  |

| endure (Para 3) |  |

| increment (Para 3) |  |

| disposable (Para 3) |  |

| cultivating (Para 4) |  |

| supplement (Para 4) |  |

| allocate (Para 4) |  |

| diverse (Para 5) |  |




| 1. | Complete the table with information about the cocoa industry’s value distribution: | Complete the table with information about the cocoa industry’s value distribution: |

| --- | --- | --- |

|  | Stakeholder | Share of Industry Value |

|  | Cocoa farmers | a. ______ % to b. ______% |

|  | Other stakeholders mainly in the west | 93.4% to c. ______% |

| 2. | Why is low income a significant issue for Ghanaian cocoa farmers? | Why is low income a significant issue for Ghanaian cocoa farmers? |

|  | They rely on cocoa for most of their earnings.
They use outdated farming methods.
They sell to multiple buyers. | They rely on cocoa for most of their earnings.
They use outdated farming methods.
They sell to multiple buyers. |

| 3. | What does Kwarteng imply about Fairtrade’s impact? | What does Kwarteng imply about Fairtrade’s impact? |

|  | It has doubled farmers’ incomes.
It benefits others more than farmers.
It sets cocoa prices fairly. | It has doubled farmers’ incomes.
It benefits others more than farmers.
It sets cocoa prices fairly. |

| 4. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“The CMC adjusts cocoa prices yearly to account for inflation.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“The CMC adjusts cocoa prices yearly to account for inflation.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 5. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Unlike other farmers, cocoa farmers lack the authority to _______________________ their product prices. | Unlike other farmers, cocoa farmers lack the authority to _______________________ their product prices. |

| 6. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Western companies pay farmers directly for their cocoa.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Western companies pay farmers directly for their cocoa.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 7. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Inflation throughout the year _______________________ the farmers’ real purchasing power. | Inflation throughout the year _______________________ the farmers’ real purchasing power. |

| 8. | What best describes the daily income situation for a cocoa farmer’s household? | What best describes the daily income situation for a cocoa farmer’s household? |

|  | Each member earns more than the poverty line.
The farmer’s net earnings support a small family.
Household members live on less than half a dollar. | Each member earns more than the poverty line.
The farmer’s net earnings support a small family.
Household members live on less than half a dollar. |

| 9. | Why do cocoa farmers rely on large families? | Why do cocoa farmers rely on large families? |

|  | To increase their profits
To reduce labour costs
To meet Western labour standards | To increase their profits
To reduce labour costs
To meet Western labour standards |

| 10. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Western expectations of labour regulations are _______________________ given the low funds provided. | Western expectations of labour regulations are _______________________ given the low funds provided. |

| 11. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“The cocoa industry’s value has decreased since 2016 due to low farmer income.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“The cocoa industry’s value has decreased since 2016 due to low farmer income.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 12. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | The term “forced labour” is used to unjustly _______________________ struggling cocoa farmers. | The term “forced labour” is used to unjustly _______________________ struggling cocoa farmers. |




|  |  |  |

| --- | --- | --- |

