---
original_file: 3 S.docx
converted_date: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036
source_path: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036\EmmaMaterials\Materials for Students (Word)\3 S.docx
---

# 3 S

Module 3: household Waste

## Course Intended Learning Outcomes (CILOs):

By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Understand core concepts of household waste, recycling, and upcycling;

Analyse and interpret waste-related information using critical language;

Describe and report numerical and graphical data in in spoken and written English;

Discuss waste management ideas through comparing data trends;

Advocate for improved waste management practices.

## 1. CONCEPTS

Task 1 – Warm-up

Part A: Your waste disposal habit

How much rubbish do you throw away every day? What is usually inside your rubbish bags? Describe your waste disposal habit to your partners by considering the following:

1. What kinds of waste do you throw away at home every day?

2. Do you try to recycle anything in your home? Why or why not?

3. Which type of waste do you think is most common in a) your neighbourhood; b) HKBU?

Part B: Waste-related vocabulary

With your partner(s), rate the proportions of different types of domestic waste to the daily domestic waste collection amount in 2023 in Hong Kong (p.12) in the following table by searching relevant information on the Internet.

tpd: tones per day

https://www.wastereduction.gov.hk/en/assistancewizard/waste_red_sat.htm

## 2. Conceptualizing “upcycling” AND “recycling”

Task 2 – Differentiating upcycling from recycling

What is recycling, and how is upcycling different from recycling?

The video is going to explain the differences between recycling and upcycling. Complete the questions below while viewing.

Recycling Vs Up-cycling : What’s the difference? [1:14-6:30] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ahTaAg5Zxsg

Transcript [1:14-6:30]

In order to start off, we'll look at a term that everyone is probably familiar with, and that's recycling or recycled materials. When it comes to recycling, it's important to understand that recycling is an industrial process whereby objects are taken from waste and are turned into new materials used to make the same objects. For example, when we take metal from aluminium cans that we discard and we turn that into new metal that we use to make other aluminium cans, so that's a common process. Or on the flip side, where we take materials and we sort of repurpose them, so we take things like plastic from wastes in the ocean and we turn that into the building blocks necessary to make new materials like fabrics that are used to make things like leggings and sports bras. So with the recycling, you can either repurpose that material for the same purpose I had before or repurpose it for something different. Doesn't matter, they're both considered to be recycling.

When it comes to recyclables in that process, these are collected from everyday places like your homes, communities, industrial plants, commercial centers and are taken to a recycling plant where they're first sorted by type. You have your metals, aluminium, your glass, your plastics, and your papers. These are all sorted accordingly, and sometimes you're able to take these raw materials and recycle 100 of them. In the case of glass and metal, you're able to take these recyclables and to repurpose 100 of them for other use. However, in other cases like with plastics and paper, you're unable to do that because the process of recycling, which is an industrial process and a pretty intensive process, actually breaks down the building blocks. So what ends up happening in this case is you'll take a certain percentage of that material and you'll mix it with new fresh materials in order to make your new recycled materials. So with things like paper and wood, you're able to recycle them but not 100 of them.

Now that we've looked at the process of recycling, let's turn our attention to upcycling. This may or may not be a term that you've heard before, and honestly, it's only become popularized in recent times. Upcycling is sometimes referred to as creative recycling; however, that's not the right term to use for it because upcycling isn't actually related to recycling at all. Where recycling involves industrial processes to take materials and to repurpose them, with upcycling, it's more of a physical process. In short, upcycling is the activity of making new products out of old or waste material. A commonly upcycled product is something like furniture, where we can take a piece of furniture that is outdated, unfashionable, or unusable, which would be considered waste or not usable at all, and by a process of standing, painting, and maybe adding new handles, you can have an entirely fresh and modern piece of furniture to reuse. So this is a prime example of upcycling and reusing for the same purpose.

However, upcycling doesn't only involve itself into taking items into repurposing them for the same thing. You can actually take items and reverse them for other things. What's an example of this? Well, if you look at a plastic bottle, plastic model can be upcycled quite easily into something like a face visor, a light shield, bird feeder, so on and so forth. Really, when it comes to upcycling, the only limitation is your creativity and the physical ability to execute.

Aside from the obvious fundamental differences between recycling and upcycling, really, what makes the two so different? Well, recycling involves the destruction of waste in order to create something new, whereas upcycling involves the repurposing of waste in order to create something new. With upcycling, the original form is retained in the new object. It's instantly recognizable as to what it has been and now what it has become. In a sense, an upcycled object is sort of a tribute to its former self. Also, while recycling is quite practical, upcycling is highly creative and can involve a wide variety of techniques and processes in order to provide an outlet to repurpose old things into new things.

In summary, reuse and upcycling can actually reduce the need for recycling, which is a major plus. However, if you end up with goods or materials that can no longer be repurposed easily, then it's a much better option to recycle them than to have these materials end up in landfills. So that's pretty much it, guys, when it comes to the key differences and similarities between recycling and upcycling.

## 3. interpreting data from graphical representations

Do you still remember the different methods to report and describe and report numerical data introduced in the previous unit? Here is a quick recap:

In addition to the above, instead of reporting graphical information mechanically, such as “As shown in Figure 2.2, the shares of waste generated by the countries of low-income level, the lower-middle income level, the upper-middle income level and the high-income level were 5%, 29%, 32% and 34% respectively”, we can select and present data by comparison and contrast, as shown below.

Task 3 – Describing the spread of data (from the lowest to the highest value)

Complete the paragraph below:

(Source: Kaza et al., 2018)

In the above example, only two out of the four income levels falling into both ends of the category, e.g. “low-income” (i.e. the “lowest”) and “high-income” (i.e. the “highest”), are selected for comparison. In addition, data from the pie chart and the table related to the same category (e.g. “high-income level”) are combined (e.g. “high-income countries generate 34 percent, or 683 million tonnes, of the world’s waste”) before being contrasted with the proportion to the world’s population (e.g. “Although they only account for 16 percent of the world’s population”).

Task 4 – Describing the spread of data (range)

Depending on the nature and type of the data, describing the data range, highlighting the minimum and the maximum, is another common way of interpretation.

Complete the sentence below:

(Source: Kaza et al., 2018)

In the above example, an adverb of degree (e.g. “substantially”) is used to show the intensity of the difference or variation of data in the table. Other adverbs of degree include: almost, completely, extremely, hardly, largely, least, most, quite, strongly and very.

Task 5 – Describing relationships between variables in data

Alternatively, it is possible to show the relationship (i.e. correlation) between two sets of data in a graph, e.g. “GDP per capita” on the x-axis and “waste generation per capita” on the y-axis. Two sets of data are said to have a positive relationship when both of them are moving towards the same direction (e.g. when both “GDP” and “waste generation” are either increasing or decreasing at the same time). Otherwise, there will be a negative relationship between them (e.g. when “GDP” is up, “waste generation” decreases; when “GDP” decreases, “waste generation” rises).

Complete the paragraph below:

(Source: Kaza et al., 2018)

Task 6 – Interpreting and reporting data for practice

It is your turn to describe data in relation to international waste generation.

Use one or a combination of the three ways of interpreting graphical representations to report major findings in the bar chart below.

(Source: Kaza et al., 2018)

## 4. Advocating CHANGE

Task 7 – Final discussion

Part A: Individual reflection

Reflect on your experience with household waste. You may consider:

What do you usually do with waste at home?

Do you think people in your area care about waste?

Have you ever tried something like upcycling?

Part B: Mini-presentation

Describe a change you would like to see in how people manage household waste. You should include the following:

What the change is and why it’s needed;

How people could make this change happen; and

What difference it would make to the environment or community.

Part C: Group discussion

Discuss the following questions about improving waste management with your groupmates. You should cover:

Why do some people find it hard to change their waste habits?

How can governments encourage people to manage waste better?

What might happen if we don’t improve waste management in the future?

References

Environmental Protection Department. (2021). Monitoring of solid waste in Hong Kong 2021. https://www.wastereduction.gov.hk/en/assistancewizard/waste_red_sat.htm

FittDesign Studio. Recycling versus upcycling: What’s the difference? [Video] YouTube.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ahTaAg5Zxsg

Kaza, S., Yao, L., Bhada-Tata, P., & Woerden, F. (2018). What a waste 2.0: A global snapshot of solid waste management to 2050. World Bank.

Photographs

Cover:

European Environment Agency. (2023, April 10). Municipal waste management in the Western Balkan countries. https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/municipal-waste-management-in-western


| Types of Domestic Waste | Proportion 
(1 being the highest; 9 being the least) |

| --- | --- |

| Glass (e.g. glass bottles and other glass) |  |

| Household hazardous wastes (e.g. paints, pesticides, fuels, batteries, electrical appliances) |  |

| Metals (e.g. ferrous and non-ferrous metals) |  |

| Others (e.g. bulky items and other miscellaneous waste materials not listed) |  |

| Paper (e.g. cardboard, newsprint, office paper) |  |

| Plastics (e.g. bags, bottles, polyfoam dining wares) |  |

| Putrescibles (e.g. food waste and yard waste) |  |

| Textiles |  |

| Wood |  |




| 1. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

| --- | --- | --- | --- |

|  | Recycling is a process that _______________________ waste into new materials. | Recycling is a process that _______________________ waste into new materials. | Recycling is a process that _______________________ waste into new materials. |

| 2. | What is an example of recycling plastic mentioned by the speaker? | What is an example of recycling plastic mentioned by the speaker? | What is an example of recycling plastic mentioned by the speaker? |

|  | Face visor
Sportswear
Furniture | Face visor
Sportswear
Furniture | Face visor
Sportswear
Furniture |

| 3. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“All materials can be fully recycled according to the speaker.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“All materials can be fully recycled according to the speaker.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“All materials can be fully recycled according to the speaker.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 4. | Fill in each of the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in each of the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in each of the blanks below with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Aspect | Recycling | Upcycling |

|  | Nature | (a) _________________ process | (b) __________________ process |

|  | Example | Old (c) ___________________ cans to new ones | (d) _____________________ to a bird feeder |

|  |  |  |  |

| 5. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Upcycling uses old and waste material to _______________________ items. | Upcycling uses old and waste material to _______________________ items. | Upcycling uses old and waste material to _______________________ items. |

| 6. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Upcycling requires more industrial equipment than recycling.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Upcycling requires more industrial equipment than recycling.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Upcycling requires more industrial equipment than recycling.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 7. | Fill in each of the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in each of the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in each of the blanks below with no more than TWO words: |

|  | The speaker concludes that recycling involves the (a) _______________________ of waste, while upcycling is to (b) _______________________waste. | The speaker concludes that recycling involves the (a) _______________________ of waste, while upcycling is to (b) _______________________waste. | The speaker concludes that recycling involves the (a) _______________________ of waste, while upcycling is to (b) _______________________waste. |

| 8. | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Upcycling keeps the object’s _______________________ recognisable. | Upcycling keeps the object’s _______________________ recognisable. | Upcycling keeps the object’s _______________________ recognisable. |

| 9. | Which method should you choose if you end up with items which cannot be repurposed easily? | Which method should you choose if you end up with items which cannot be repurposed easily? | Which method should you choose if you end up with items which cannot be repurposed easily? |

|  | Recycling
Upcycling | Recycling
Upcycling | Recycling
Upcycling |




| Method | Examples |

| --- | --- |

| Direct Percentage | “Retailers receive 48.4% of the profit.” |

| Fraction / proportion | “Nearly half the profit goes to retailers.” //
“About one-third of the total is earned by manufacturers.” |

| Rounded Figures | “Traders earn roughly 9% of the HK$25.” |

| Currency Amount | “Retailers take HK$12.1, while farmers receive HK$1.65.” |

| Comparison | “Retailers’ share is over seven times that of farmers.” |




|  | Although they only account for 16 percent of the world’s population, high-income countries generate 34 percent, or 683 million tonnes, of the world’s waste (Figure 2.2). ____________________ countries account for 10 percent of the world’s population but generate only about ___________________ of global waste, or __________________. |

| --- | --- |




|  | Average waste generation across countries varies substantially, from _______________ kilogram per capita per day to _____________ kilograms per capita per day (Table 2.1). |

| --- | --- |




| Note: Size of bubble denotes total waste generated in millions of tonnes annually. Waste generation per capita per day: low income = 0.43kg, lower-middle income = 0.61kg, upper-middle income = 0.69kg, high income = 1.57kg. 
GDP = Gross domestic product; kg = kilogram | Waste generation has an overall ______________ relationship with economic development (Figure 2.3). For incremental income changes, waste generation is generally shown to ______________ at a faster rate at lower income levels than at higher income levels. |

| --- | --- |




|  |

| --- |

