---
original_file: 5 S.docx
converted_date: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036
source_path: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036\EmmaMaterials\Materials for Students (Word)\5 S.docx
---

# 5 S

Module : 
global labour and employment

Fig 1: Picture for United Nation’s EGM on Creating full and productive employment and decent work for all (2022 June)

## COURSE Intended Learning Outcomes (CILOs)

By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Present different types of inequality in the global labour market and their impact on workers using descriptive language;

Suggest solutions to reduce inequality and improve workers’ welfare in the global labour market, and discuss their potential impact;

Explore about issues using language skills such as listening for specific information, interpreting infographics, and understanding implied meanings

## 1. Concepts

We often hear the word “inequality” in employment, and international organisations try to measure inequality in different dimensions. These dimensions are often intertwined and one of the most common metrics is income inequality. Let’s begin with a short video about inequality.

World inequality lab: What does inequality look like today? https://youtu.be/UmVmAQ3DtVE

After watching the video, work in pairs to discuss the following questions.

1.	Does globalisation do more good than harm? Justify your stance with at least two reasons. You can also share your observations.

2.	Data suggests that globalisation could hardly reduce the income gap. Are you surprised? Why or why not?

## 2. worker challenges – income inequality

Besides unemployment, workers face the problem of income inequality, which can be examined from a number of dimensions. As the correlation of income and wealth is inextricable, workers are challenged by wealth inequality at the same time.

Task 1 – What is income inequality?

Read the following information about income inequality and then answer questions that follow. Work in pairs.

1. Based on the text above, complete the following sentences by filling in the blanks in ONE WORD ONLY:

2.  Fill in the blanks below based on the following diagrams:

* The bottom 50% is the poorest population while the top 1% is the richest individual adults.

a. Globally, the poorest 50% population earns _______ of the total income and captures ______ of the total wealth, whilst the richest 1% population earns 	______ of the total income and captures ________ of the total wealth. Global ________ is unevenly distributed.

b. North Americans earn ______times more than Sub-Saharan Africans, _____times more than South and Southeast Asians, and nearly ______ times more than Latin America.

3. Determine if the following statements are TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN according to this chart:

## 3. digital labour platforms

The digital labour platforms have opened up numerous opportunities for workers and businesses, creating job opportunities and offering a wide array of services to clients and customers. However, the digital labour platforms also have posed various threats to gig or platform workers.

Task 2 – What are digital labour platforms?

Watch a video to learn more about digital labour platforms. After the video, work in pairs to answer questions that follow.

CUHK: Digital labour platforms  https://youtu.be/xuQL-j_Rc50

Transcript

This video is about digital labour platforms and the opportunities and challenges they create in global labour systems. Digital labour platforms are online entities that connect workers with businesses or clients or that directly engage workers to provide labour services through online applications. The work done through these platforms is known as platform-mediated work or gig work. It is therefore part of the digital economy, which refers to all the economic activities that rely on digital technology and data, and parts of the gig economy, which refers to all the labour activities that are based on short-term, part-time assignments undertaken by independent workers.

These activities can be online-based—that is to say, done remotely, as in freelance graphic design work, coding and web development work, content moderation, and medical consultation—or it can be location-based—that is to say, done in person, as in taxi services, delivery, domestic work, and care services. The main characteristic of these platforms is algorithmic management, which refers to the platform matching workers with businesses or individuals based on automated processes that rely on various criteria, including ratings or worker evaluation by clients.

The rise of digital labour platforms has generated unique money-making opportunities for millions of workers worldwide. This includes young people who entered the labour market thanks to digital platforms, people with disabilities, migrant workers, workers in developing countries, and more. These opportunities are highly flexible and can bring additional income for workers when they need it or even represent their main source of income. For companies, digital platforms make it possible to have a commercial activity and hire workers in a country without even having a physical presence there, which reduces costs and improves efficiency, amongst other advantages.

These opportunities, however, also come with major downsides and challenges for workers; the main issue is their status. As digital labour platforms are not very regulated, they usually impose a labour relationship that is entirely determined by the platform and characterises the relationship as something else than employment. This means that workers are considered as self-employed independent contractors and not as employees of the platform, so they do not have any of the guarantees and advantages employees normally have, such as income security, different forms of social protection, including health insurance or accident insurance. Such insecurity makes much digital platform labour fall into the category of precarious work, which refers to work that is uncertain, unstable, and unprotected.

In addition to their status issue, digital platform workers also suffer from the algorithmic management model, which greatly limits worker autonomy through constant monitoring of progress, tasks, and performance with systems that are often not clear to workers and put a lot of pressure on them. A good example is the delivery service worker who has to complete their tasks as fast as possible to get good rankings and get more deliveries, which can lead them to take risks on the roads to go faster, even though they have no insurance protection—not to mention the fact that digital platform workers have to provide their own digital devices and any other equipment they need and to pay for their own resources.

Because workers have no choice but to accept these terms of use if they want access to the digital platforms, the platforms have most of the power and workers very little. This power asymmetry is made possible by the lack of regulation that characterises platform-mediated work, and there are two main reasons for this lack. First, the speed at which these platforms have developed, which means that regulation has not yet caught up with them. Second, the way policy makers and investors have been seduced by the platform's arguments of innovation and promises of work opportunities, which have led them to allow digital platforms to operate very freely, even in industries that are traditionally highly regulated, such as the transportation industry.

Digital labour platforms have therefore replaced the traditional employer-employee relationship with a much more precarious one that leaves workers highly vulnerable and makes global labour system challenges that much worse. Fortunately, there are solutions to those issues; let’s now take a look at the main ones.

## 4. protection and rights

Task 3 – Social protection

Workers face numerous challenges. To what extent are they protected? Let’s watch a video and study the statistics below about social protection.

International Labour Organisation: Social protection at the crossroads:

In pursuit of a better future https://youtu.be/dR4iC6wwt2k

Fig : International Labour Organisation (n. d.): World social protection data dashboards                                  https://www.social-protection.org/gimi/WSPDB.action?id=19

Reflect on the information above and proceed to the following tasks:

Part 1: Personal Reflection

Consider the following questions related to social protection:

Do you think workers in your region have enough social protection, like health insurance or unemployment benefits? Why or why not?

Have you or someone you know ever needed social protection (e.g., during illness or unemployment)? How did it help, or what challenges did you face?

In Task 1, statistical data show us that some countries offer better income than others, which could be true for social protection as well. Why do you think some countries are willing to/can provide better social protection than others (e.g. Europe vs. Africa)?

Part 2: Individual Mini-Presentation

The video and the charts above highlight that many workers lack social protection. Why is social protection important for workers? You should:

Discuss why social protection is important for workers’ lives;

Describe what challenges workers might face without social protection;

Suggest one or two ways governments or businesses could improve social protection for workers globally.

Part 3: Group Discussion

Based on your own views and your groupmates’ insights presented above, discuss the following questions as a group:

1.	What might be the reason for some countries following a “low-road” strategy of chronic underinvestment and minimalist provision?

2.	What do you make of the fact that 46.9% of the global population is covered by at least one social protection benefit?

3.	Among different types of social protection benefits, which one benefits workers most and should be prioritised?

## 5. solutions and advocacy

To combat poverty and reduce the inequality gap, global efforts are needed from policy makers, business leaders, worker representatives, and international organisations.

Task 4 – The welfare of workers

Study the information and answer the questions that follow:

References

Chancel, L. (lead author), Piketty, T., Saez, E. & Zucman, G. (2021). World inequality report 2022. World Inequality Lab, Paris School of Economics. https://wir2022.wid.world/www-site/uploads/2023/03/D_FINAL_WIL_RIM_RAPPORT_2303.pdf

The Independent Learning Centre, CUHK. (2024). GC3 - Digital platforms [Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/xuQL-j_Rc50

International Labour Organisation. (2022, November). Global wage report 2022-2023. https://www.ilo.org/digitalguides/en-gb/story/globalwagereport2022-23#impact-employees

International Labour Organisation. Our story, your story, Chapter 5: Social protection. https://www.ilo.org/100/en/story/protection/

International Labour Organisation. Statistics on social protection. ILOSTAT. https://ilostat.ilo.org/topics/social-protection/

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2022). International cooperation to end tax avoidance. https://www.oecd.org/tax/beps/

Rajpurohit, S. (2010, October 27). Corporate social responsibility towards poor. Social Science Research Network. https://ssrn.com/abstract=1892086

World Inequality Lab. (2022). What does inequality look like today? [Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/UmVmAQ3DtVE

Figures

Fig 1:

United Nations. [Picture of EGM on Creating full and productive employment and decent work for all (2022 June] https://www.un.org/development/desa/dspd/2022egms/employment-decent-work-for-all.html

Fig 2:

International Labour Organisation. (n. d.). World social protection data dashboards. https://www.social-protection.org/gimi/WSPDB.action?id=19


| National income is the total of all earnings of ___________within 12 months. |

| --- |

| Incomes from individuals’ labour and incomes from individuals’ wealth ___________ the major sources of incomes. |

| Inequality within countries is currently the ___________ ever. |

| The emerging world has been trying to catch up over the past _______ years. |




| Statements | TRUE / FALSE /
NOT GIVEN |

| --- | --- |

| North America achieved gender parity in labour income by 2020. |  |

| The female labour income share in MENA is higher than in Western Europe. |  |

| Women’s labour income share in North America increased by less than 10% from 1990 to 2020. |  |

| Sub-Saharan Africa has not implemented any measure to increase female labour income share since 1990. |  |

| Western Europe’s female labour income share is closer to gender parity than Latin America’s in 2020. |  |

| The decline in female labour income share in China between 1990 and 2020 was due to the increased male labour income |  |




| 1. | What does the video primarily explore about digital labour platforms? | What does the video primarily explore about digital labour platforms? | What does the video primarily explore about digital labour platforms? | What does the video primarily explore about digital labour platforms? | What does the video primarily explore about digital labour platforms? |

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

|  | Their technological development
Their impact on global labour systems
Their role in traditional industries | Their technological development
Their impact on global labour systems
Their role in traditional industries | Their technological development
Their impact on global labour systems
Their role in traditional industries | Their technological development
Their impact on global labour systems
Their role in traditional industries | Their technological development
Their impact on global labour systems
Their role in traditional industries |

| 2. | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Platform-mediated work is also called _______ work. | Platform-mediated work is also called _______ work. | Platform-mediated work is also called _______ work. | Platform-mediated work is also called _______ work. | Platform-mediated work is also called _______ work. |

| 3. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | One feature of online-based work is that it can be completed _____________. | One feature of online-based work is that it can be completed _____________. | One feature of online-based work is that it can be completed _____________. | One feature of online-based work is that it can be completed _____________. | One feature of online-based work is that it can be completed _____________. |

| 4. | Give one example to each type of work below in no more than THREE words: | Give one example to each type of work below in no more than THREE words: | Give one example to each type of work below in no more than THREE words: | Give one example to each type of work below in no more than THREE words: | Give one example to each type of work below in no more than THREE words: |

|  | Type of work | Type of work | Example | Example | Example |

|  | Online-based | Online-based | content (a) _____________ | content (a) _____________ | content (a) _____________ |

|  | Location-based | Location-based | taxi (b) _______________ | taxi (b) _______________ | taxi (b) _______________ |

|  |  |  |  |  |  |

| 5. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Digital platforms mainly benefit young people entering the labour market.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Digital platforms mainly benefit young people entering the labour market.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Digital platforms mainly benefit young people entering the labour market.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Digital platforms mainly benefit young people entering the labour market.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“Digital platforms mainly benefit young people entering the labour market.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 6. | What is a key benefit for companies using digital platforms? | What is a key benefit for companies using digital platforms? | What is a key benefit for companies using digital platforms? | What is a key benefit for companies using digital platforms? | What is a key benefit for companies using digital platforms? |

|  | Higher worker salaries
Lowered costs
More regulations | Higher worker salaries
Lowered costs
More regulations | Higher worker salaries
Lowered costs
More regulations | Higher worker salaries
Lowered costs
More regulations | Higher worker salaries
Lowered costs
More regulations |

| 7. | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Workers on digital platforms lack ___________ security. | Workers on digital platforms lack ___________ security. | Workers on digital platforms lack ___________ security. | Workers on digital platforms lack ___________ security. | Workers on digital platforms lack ___________ security. |

| 8. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Delivery workers face pressure to get good _____________. | Delivery workers face pressure to get good _____________. | Delivery workers face pressure to get good _____________. | Delivery workers face pressure to get good _____________. | Delivery workers face pressure to get good _____________. |

| 9. | Tick () the reasons for the lack of regulation among platform-mediated work mentioned in the video: | Tick () the reasons for the lack of regulation among platform-mediated work mentioned in the video: | Tick () the reasons for the lack of regulation among platform-mediated work mentioned in the video: | Tick () the reasons for the lack of regulation among platform-mediated work mentioned in the video: | Tick () the reasons for the lack of regulation among platform-mediated work mentioned in the video: |

|  |  | Lack of worker demand | Lack of worker demand |  | Policy makers’ mistaken evaluation |

|  |  | Speed of development | Speed of development |  | High competition among platforms |

|  |  |  |  |  |  |

| 10. | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Digital platforms create a ______________ relationship for workers. | Digital platforms create a ______________ relationship for workers. | Digital platforms create a ______________ relationship for workers. | Digital platforms create a ______________ relationship for workers. | Digital platforms create a ______________ relationship for workers. |




| 1. | What is the main cause of tax base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS)? | What is the main cause of tax base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS)? |

| --- | --- | --- |

|  | High corporate tax rates
Gaps in tax systems
Lack of digitalisation | High corporate tax rates
Gaps in tax systems
Lack of digitalisation |

| 2. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“BEPS affects all countries equally.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“BEPS affects all countries equally.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 3. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“BEPS practices cost more than 10% of global corporate tax revenue annually.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“BEPS practices cost more than 10% of global corporate tax revenue annually.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 4. | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Over 135 countries joined a two-pillar plan, ____________ sure that multinational enterprises pay a fair share of tax. | Over 135 countries joined a two-pillar plan, ____________ sure that multinational enterprises pay a fair share of tax. |

| 5. | Tick (✓) the correct goals of the OECD/G20 Framework below: | Tick (✓) the correct goals of the OECD/G20 Framework below: |

|  |  | Goals |

|  | ✓ | Increase corporate tax rates globally |

|  | ✓ | Reduce government spending on tax collection |

|  | ✓ | Address tax issues caused by digital economy |

|  | ✓ | Promote a more open tax environment |

|  |  |  |

| 6. | How does CSR aim to improve workers’ welfare, according to the text? | How does CSR aim to improve workers’ welfare, according to the text? |

|  | By increasing their salaries 
By improving their quality of life 
By providing new job opportunities | By increasing their salaries 
By improving their quality of life 
By providing new job opportunities |

| 7. | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“CSR requires organisations to go beyond their legal responsibilities.” | Is the following statement TRUE, FALSE or NOT GIVEN?
“CSR requires organisations to go beyond their legal responsibilities.” |

|  | True
False
Not given | True
False
Not given |

| 8. | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than TWO words: |

|  | CSR can ________ needs of disadvantaged communities. | CSR can ________ needs of disadvantaged communities. |

| 9. | What role can business play in supporting disadvantaged workers? | What role can business play in supporting disadvantaged workers? |

|  | Enforcing stricter regulations 
Developing new technologies 
Reducing employee benefits | Enforcing stricter regulations 
Developing new technologies 
Reducing employee benefits |

| 10. | Fill in the blanks below with no more than THREE words: | Fill in the blanks below with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Business can improve ___________ education and healthcare etc. for the impoverished. | Business can improve ___________ education and healthcare etc. for the impoverished. |

