---
original_file: 6 S.docx
converted_date: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036
source_path: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036\EmmaMaterials\Materials for Students (Word)\6 S.docx
---

# 6 S

Module : 
MEDIA AND TECHNOLOGY

Fig 1: Picture from Adobe Stock https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/business-technology-internet-and-network-concept-young-busine/133122838?prev_url=detail

## COURSE Intended Learning Outcomes (CILOs)

By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Identify main types of false information in digital media;

Explain possible social consequences caused by information disorder;

Recognise persuasive writing techniques for capturing attention online, such as clickbait;

Describe actions to foster positive digital interactions and explain their purpose;

Use “infinitives of purpose” in writing and speaking, as well as other language skills in reading and listening comprehension tasks.

## 1. Icebreaker questions

What role does digital media play in your daily life? Work in groups of 4 to discuss the following questions:

1.	How much time do you spend on digital media on average per day? What do you usually do online?

2.	What would you do if you could not use any digital devices and/or could not access the Internet for a day?

3.	Have you ever or nearly fallen prey to online scams or phishing? Try to recount your experience.

4.	Are you worried about your online safety? Why or why not?

## 2. advertising and digital economy

Advertisements are ubiquitous on the Internet and digital media users could hardly remove them as not every platform can be paid to hide advertisements. You usually do not pay to use social media platforms, but these platforms earn by showing you advertisements – social media platforms profit from your attention.

Task 1 – Impact of digital media on the advertising industry

Part 1: Reading comprehension

Read the following excerpt to learn about how the advent of digital media has transformed the advertising industry and decide if each of the statements in the table below is True, False, or Not Given.

Part 2: Clickbait headline

To seek your attention, advertisers design attractive advertisements and one of the tactics is to use “clickbait headlines”. A clickbait headline is a sensational or misleading headline that entices users to click on it to find out more. Here are a few examples of clickbait headlines:

“You’ll never believe the [adjective + noun] …”

Examples:

a. “You’ll Never Believe the Revolutionary Transformation After This Extreme Makeover!”

b. “You’ll Never Believe the Hidden Treasures in This Abandoned Mansion!”

“The perfect [noun] doesn’t exist: … ”

Examples:

a. “The Perfect Relationship Doesn’t Exist: Secrets to Lasting Love Revealed!”

b. “The Perfect Vacation Spot Doesn’t Exist: Paradise Found!”

“This Is How…”

Examples:

a. “This is How to Ace Your Job Interview and Land Your Dream Job.”

b. “This is How to Train for a Marathon and Cross the Finish Line Strong.”

4.  “The [superlative adjective + noun] of the year: …”

Examples:

a. “The Best Movies of the Year: A Must-Watch List for Film Enthusiasts.”

b. “The Biggest Fashion Trends of the Year: Style Must-Haves for 2025”

Exercise 1:

Recognising how clickbait works helps make informed decisions about which content to engage with online. Below are four partially written clickbait headlines. Complete each headline by filling in the blanks with NO MORE THAN THREE WORDS, following the aforementioned.

Exercise 2:

A company called “Health-Pro” is launching a new product – Anti-flu supplements. Their marketing team have already designed a poster, and they are now adding a clickbait headline to the poster as a final touch. What are the possible titles they may use?

(Source: )

## 3. The digital self

Task 2 – What is digital self?

Read the following to understand what the digital self is and then work in groups of 4 to discuss the questions. Share your answers with the class.

Consider the following:

1. Do you think your digital self is a true representation of who you are?

2. Why may a person’s digital self not be a true representation of that person?

3. What can you do if you want your virtual footprint to increase more slowly?

## 4. information disorder

After exploring various interactions brought about by digital media, let’s look at the pitfalls associated with digital media. Here is a video that explains different types of false or deceptive online information and how information disorder affects us.

Task 3 – Impact of information disorder

Watch the video and answer the questions that follow:

CUHK: Information disorder  https://youtu.be/bJXrTD2OQjo

Transcript

This video is about information disorder or the spread of false information online and its social consequences. Based on UNESCO's model, there are three main types of information disorder. Some information is false, but the people who share it mistakenly believe it is true. This is known as misinformation. Conversely, some information is true, perhaps exaggerated, but sharing it causes harm. When people share this kind of information deliberately, it is known as malinformation. This includes information leaks, such as personal emails or confidential documents. When information is both false and shared with an intention to cause harm, it is known as disinformation. This includes modified images and videos as well as fabricated content, such as fake news, and increasingly the use of artificial intelligence to create deep fakes, in which a person’s face and voice can be used to make that person say things that they did not say.

The general term for this kind of disinformation is impostor content, which is when someone pretends to be from a reliable source or to be someone they’re not. This usually means using the name or logo of a famous person or news institution to make content look official and legitimate when it is not. This also includes what is known as astroturfing, which refers to content that is made to look like spontaneous contribution by normal people to support or criticise something or someone, when in fact, this content has been created by an organisation that has an interest in that support or criticism. In all cases, disinformation is designed to hurt individuals or groups by giving people the wrong ideas. Information disorder can have various motivations, including passionate beliefs or money, but it is often about power and influence on public opinion.

Now, the use of false information to influence people is not new, and propaganda has been used for hundreds of years. But digital technology has changed the ways in which contents can be created and distributed, which amplifies information disorder. Advanced devices now indeed make it easy and cheap to create and to manipulate content, and social media platforms greatly accelerate the spread of content, especially false information. This is particularly true when content goes viral. Virality is the condition of being shared very quickly by increasingly large numbers of people.

All this can happen because of our cognitive biases and the way they’re amplified by algorithms. Cognitive biases are the logical thinking mistakes we make when we process information and try to make decisions. An important one in this context is confirmation bias, which refers to our tendency to look at reality in facts only to confirm the opinions and beliefs that we already have and just focus on that. Algorithms are the sets of rules that search engines and platforms use to select the content that a user is the most likely to want or like and to present that content first in our social media feeds. This creates an environment that isolates us from diversity by focusing only on content and people who already share our likes, opinions, and beliefs. These environments are what Eli Pariser calls filter bubbles.

Filter bubbles make confirmation bias even worse because the information that could make us think differently or correct us if we’re wrong is simply excluded by the algorithms from our feeds on social media. So now, people tend to be in their own bubbles and not to listen as much to anyone who has a different opinion. The main social consequence of this is an increase in polarisation, which refers to the separation of people into groups with strongly opposed opinions. Polarisation fosters tensions and disrespect among people, as evidenced online by the amount of trolling almost everywhere, which refers to the practice of writing false or offensive messages in order to make other people angry.

All of these developments have led some to believe that because of digital media and technology, we now live in a post-truth age, in which objective truth has been replaced by whatever I think is my truth, whatever you think is your truth, regardless of reality. This is a debatable notion, and fortunately, there are solutions that can help navigate our digital world, better evaluate the information we find in it, and, crucially, be better citizens. So let’s now take a look at those solutions.

## 5. advocacy

Many international organisations and governments advocate for those without access to digital media, promote digital safety, and campaign for boosting digital media literacy.

Task 4 – Using “Infinitives of Purpose”

Watch a video about a campaign to promote media and information literacy and learn how the speaker uses “Infinitives of Purpose”:

UNESCO: Media and information literate citizens: Think critically, click wisely!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bjYhmTC3lrc

******

Transcript

The way we create and consume information has changed significantly in recent years. Today, more than half of the world’s population, including over 70 percent of all youth globally, are online. But how can we make sure that all information is used for public good to promote dialogue and respect, support SDGs and democracy, and empower lifelong learners, instead of breeding hate speech, disinformation, fake news, and privacy violations?

Media and information literacy is designed to combat these challenges and enable people to better benefit from positive opportunities. It gives individuals the skills to interpret and understand information, to think critically and click wisely, both on and offline. UNESCO has launched the second edition of the MIL curriculum for educators and learners. It provides a comprehensive framework for information, media, and digital competencies, so individuals can spot misinformation and engage positively in society.

It’s not just a framework but a foundation to live by, to help make sense of ever-changing information-based influences. By becoming media and information literate citizens, we are empowered to make the right choices. Learn more about media and information literacy and how it can support citizens to think critically and click wisely on and offline.

******

A. In the video, the speaker uses “Infinitives of Purpose” (i.e. to + verb) to explain why we are doing something.

Examples (underlined in the transcript):

But how can we make sure that all information is used for public good to promote dialogue and respect, (to) support SDGs and democracy, and (to) empower lifelong learners …

Media and information literacy is designed to combat these challenges and enable people to better benefit from positive opportunities.

It’s not just a framework but a foundation to live by, to help make sense of ever-changing information-based influences.

B. We can also use for + somebody to explain that we are doing an action on behalf of someone else.

Examples:

But how can we make sure that all information is used for public good to promote dialogue and respect, (to) support SDGs and democracy, and (to) empower lifelong learners …

Media and information literacy is designed for us to combat these challenges and enable people to better benefit from positive opportunities.

It’s not just a framework but a foundation for individual users to live by, to help make sense of ever-changing information-based influences.

C. To make a sentence more formal, we can add “in order to” or “so as to” to “Infinitives of Purpose” to express meaning, for example:

But how can we make sure that all information is used for public good in order to/so as to promote dialogue and respect, (to) support SDGs and democracy, and (to) empower lifelong learners …

Media and information literacy is designed in order to/so as to combat these challenges and enable people to better benefit from positive opportunities.

Let’s practise: Rewriting Using “Infinitives of Purpose”

Below are 6 sentences about media and information literacy. Rewrite each sentence using “Infinitives of Purpose” (i.e. to + verb) to show the purpose of the action. Use the context of media literacy, such as combating disinformation, thinking critically, or engaging positively online. Write your answers in the space provided.

References

Allison, P. R. (2023, Jan 16). The security interviews: Protecting your digital self. ComputerWeekly.com. https://www.computerweekly.com/news/252529121/The-Security-Interviews-Protecting-your-digital-self

Carpentier, C. L. (n.d.) New economics for sustainable development: Attention economy. United Nations. https://www.un.org/sites/un2.un.org/files/attention_economy_feb.pdf

Information Security Office. (2021, Jan 25). Reduce your digital footprint. Carnegie Mellon University. https://www.cmu.edu/iso/aware/protect-your-privacy/digital-footprint.html

The Independent Learning Centre, CUHK. (2024). GC2 - Information disorder [Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/bJXrTD2OQjo

UNESCO. (2021). Media and information literate citizens: Think critically, click wisely! [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bjYhmTC3lrc

Figure

Fig 1:

Egor. [Picture of business, technology, Internet and network concept] Adobe Stock https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/business-technology-internet-and-network-concept-young-busine/133122838?prev_url=detail

Additional image:

Back to Health Wellness Center. (2022). [Online nutritional supplement dispensary image] [Image]. https://www.backtohealthsantafe.com/blog/online-nutritional-supplement-dispensary


| The concept of attention economy was first coined in the late 1960s by Herbert A. Simon, characterizing the problem of information overload as an economic one. Davenport and Beck (2001) first defined the “economics of attention" as an approach to the management of information that treats human attention as a scarce commodity and applies economic theory to solve various information management problems. We are increasingly living in an “attention economy” rather than an “information economy”.
To address the scarcity of people’s attention, technologies have been increasingly aimed at strategic capture of private attention aided by systematic collection and analysis of personal data, which has become a very profitable business model. Digital platforms started gathering very large numbers of data about their users that could be sold to external users (particularly advertisers) for profit. Advertisers pay as a function of viewers (attention) which is maximized by engagement in content (e.g. videos on YouTube, feeds on Facebook).
Excerpted from
Carpentier, C. L. (n.d.) New economics for sustainable development: Attention economy. United Nations. https://www.un.org/sites/un2.un.org/files/attention_economy_feb.pdf |

| --- |




| Statements | TRUE / FALSE /
NOT GIVEN |

| --- | --- |

| The term “attention economy” was introduced by Davenport and Beck in 2001. |  |

| Herbert A. Simon viewed information overload as an economic issue. |  |

| The attention economy has completely replaced the information economy. |  |

| Advertisers pay digital platforms based on the amount of user engagement with content. |  |

| Digital platforms collect personal data to improve user experience. |  |




| 1. | Complete the table below with the correct type of information disorder. Write no more than TWO words in each box. | Complete the table below with the correct type of information disorder. Write no more than TWO words in each box. | Complete the table below with the correct type of information disorder. Write no more than TWO words in each box. | Complete the table below with the correct type of information disorder. Write no more than TWO words in each box. |

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

|  | Type | True/False Info? | Intent to Harm? | Example |

|  | a. ___________ | False | No | Rumours |

|  | Malinformation | True | Yes | Leaks of b. _________ documents |

|  | c. ___________ | False | Yes | d. _____________ |

|  |  |  |  |  |

| 2. | What is primary purpose of “impostor content”? | What is primary purpose of “impostor content”? | What is primary purpose of “impostor content”? | What is primary purpose of “impostor content”? |

|  | Modify images and videos 
Pretend to be from a reliable source 
Create spontaneous contributions 
Influence public opinion | Modify images and videos 
Pretend to be from a reliable source 
Create spontaneous contributions 
Influence public opinion | Modify images and videos 
Pretend to be from a reliable source 
Create spontaneous contributions 
Influence public opinion | Modify images and videos 
Pretend to be from a reliable source 
Create spontaneous contributions 
Influence public opinion |

| 3. | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: | Complete the sentence with no more than TWO words: |

|  | Astroturfing refers to content that appears to be ____________ but is created by an organisation with an interest. | Astroturfing refers to content that appears to be ____________ but is created by an organisation with an interest. | Astroturfing refers to content that appears to be ____________ but is created by an organisation with an interest. | Astroturfing refers to content that appears to be ____________ but is created by an organisation with an interest. |

| 4. | What is one motivation for information disorder mentioned in the lecture? Write no more than FOUR words | What is one motivation for information disorder mentioned in the lecture? Write no more than FOUR words | What is one motivation for information disorder mentioned in the lecture? Write no more than FOUR words | What is one motivation for information disorder mentioned in the lecture? Write no more than FOUR words |

|  | __________________________________________________________________ | __________________________________________________________________ | __________________________________________________________________ | __________________________________________________________________ |

|  |  |  |  |  |

| 5. | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: | Complete the sentence with no more than THREE words: |

|  | Digital technology allows ________________ solutions to content manipulation. | Digital technology allows ________________ solutions to content manipulation. | Digital technology allows ________________ solutions to content manipulation. | Digital technology allows ________________ solutions to content manipulation. |

| 6. | What does confirmation bias cause people to do? | What does confirmation bias cause people to do? | What does confirmation bias cause people to do? | What does confirmation bias cause people to do? |

|  | Share content quickly 
Focus on opposing views 
Confirm existing beliefs and opinions 
Create filter bubbles | Share content quickly 
Focus on opposing views 
Confirm existing beliefs and opinions 
Create filter bubbles | Share content quickly 
Focus on opposing views 
Confirm existing beliefs and opinions 
Create filter bubbles | Share content quickly 
Focus on opposing views 
Confirm existing beliefs and opinions 
Create filter bubbles |

| 7. | Match the term to its definition: | Match the term to its definition: | Match the term to its definition: | Match the term to its definition: |

|  | Terms |  |  | Definitions |

|  | A. Virality |  | A | Rapid sharing by many people |

|  | B. Polarisation |  | B | Separation into opposing groups |

|  |  |  |  |  |

| 8. | Name one consequence of polarisation in no more than THREE words. | Name one consequence of polarisation in no more than THREE words. | Name one consequence of polarisation in no more than THREE words. | Name one consequence of polarisation in no more than THREE words. |

|  | _________________________________________________________ | _________________________________________________________ | _________________________________________________________ | _________________________________________________________ |




| We learn media and information literacy because we want to spot misinformation. |

| --- |

|  |

| People use critical thinking skills so that they can avoid fake news. |

|  |

| UNESCO created the MIL curriculum because they wanted to help educators and learners. |

|  |

| We should promote dialogue and respect because we want to improve online interactions. |

|  |

| Individuals develop digital competencies so that they can engage positively in society. |

|  |

| Citizens think carefully before clicking because they want to make wise choices online. |

|  |

