---
original_file: 7 S.docx
converted_date: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036
source_path: C:\Users\simonwang\Documents\Vault4sync\01-Courses\LANG 0036\EmmaMaterials\Materials for Students (Word)\7 S.docx
---

# 7 S

MODULE 7: GENDER EQUALITY

Fig 1: Photo by Alexander Grey on Unsplash

## COURSE INTENDED LEARNING OUTCOMES (CILOS):

By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Explain key concepts related to gender and sexuality and explore their differences;

Analyse the impact of gender and sexuality-related discrimination in various social contexts;

Discuss strategies to address gender dynamics and discrimination;

Advocate for gender equality by examining discrimination and applying effective advocacy language;

Develop proficiency in listening to talks, speaking in discussions, responding to and writing about processes, and reading organisational data from various sources.

## GENDER AND SEXUALITY

# Task 1 – Gender vs. Sexuality

Having a clear understanding of this topic potentially helps discuss it more critically and sensibly. Let’s see if you can differentiate the following terms and concepts.

Each of these three pairs is frequently confused, and many people tend to use the terms interchangeably. As a matter of fact, the two terms of each pair may or may not conform to each other. In pairs, brainstorm examples to illustrate the terms.

Pair 1

Pair 2

Pair 3

## EXAMINING THE IMPACT OF GENDER AND SEXUALITY-RELATED DISCRIMINATION

# Task 2 – What happens at schools?

A large-scale National School Climate Survey was conducted over several months in 2019 in order to obtain a representative sample of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) youth in American schools.

Based on the above information, decide if the following statements are True, False, or Not Given:

# Task 3 – What happens in workplaces?

You will hear a talk by Marina Gorsuch, an Assistant Professor at St. Catherine University, discussing her research on workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation. As you listen, answer questions 1-10 below.

(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvOoi3T9mMI; Time: 0.00 – 4.55)

Transcript

So there are these really interesting patterns in the labour market where gay women tend to make more money than similar straight women, and gay men tend to make less money than similar straight men. So it's not just kind of discrimination based on sexual orientation. You also see gay women overrepresented in male dominated fields and then gay men overrepresented in female dominated fields. And so, you kind of have these interesting differences that are flipped from each other. It's not just sexual orientation.

And so, one thing that I was really interested in is whether or not some of the behavioural prescriptions that we see facing heterosexual women in the labour market, like these negative reactions to traditional masculine behaviour, you see kind of pushback against women when they try to negotiate for higher salaries, or if they're self promoting in an interview, or even if they're just really successful in a traditionally male job, people tend to react really negatively to this, particularly men. And so, I wanted to know whether or not gay women were also subject to these prescriptions because, if they're kind of exempt, then this might explain why they're more able to capture some of these gains in the labour market.

My name is Marina Maria Gorsuch, um, and I'm an Assistant Professor at St. Catherine University. So I did a very exciting study. I think it's very exciting, of course. I created kind of these fictional resumes. I pulled information from real resumes that were publicly listed, and then I manipulated the perceived sex and sexual orientation on the resumes. So some would appear to be from lesbian women, from gay men, from heterosexual women and heterosexual men. And then, I also altered the adjectives that people used to describe themselves. So some of these resumes would say, "Oh, I'm an aggressive go-getter." Should be kind of a traditionally masculine set of terms. And then other resumes would say, "Oh, I'm a cooperative team player." So more traditionally feminine. And then, I had people evaluate them on a number of different kind of employability measures.

And what I found was kind of as predicted by the previous literature. When the perceived straight women used feminine adjectives, they were rated much more highly than when they used masculine adjectives, but that didn't happen for the resumes that were, had this LGBT organisation on it. So as soon as you put that on the resume, or as soon as you were a perceived gay woman, you didn't have this difference based on what adjectives you were using. And so, these perceived lesbian women were really being treated much more like the perceived heterosexual men.

So, that tends to be kind of the main reason that people tend to go to for these types of differences. So if you know that you're gay while you're growing up and you're a woman, you might not expect to partner with a higher earning man. So you're gonna invest in human capital. It's gonna make you more money, for example. Or if you look at division of labour within households, you tend to have more egalitarian divisions of labour in same sex couples than you do in different sex couples. So that's going to tend to benefit gay women compared to straight women, or I should say it'll benefit women in same sex couples compared to women in different sex couples.

So a lot of the previous research has really focused on those two elements. And this paper is really kind of looking at this third element of, do gay women actually face different expectations? Are they treated differently by potential employers? So I use what's called a finite mixture model. So what this allows you to do is identify latent classes within experimental participants. So, rather than just finding the average effect, I was able to see whether or not this was kind of driven by a few bad apples, so, a couple of participants who were really discriminatory, or whether this was kind of a broader theme.

And so, what I found out was that about 60% of the male respondents had a pretty strong discriminatory effect. So they rated LGBT resumes worse, and they also had this stronger effect of like a larger difference for the perceived heterosexual women between masculine and feminine adjectives. And so, this was saying that this is really most men, and it's the same men who are having this negative reaction to the LGBT resumes as are having this new kind of very strict behavioural response or behavioural prescriptions for the perceived heterosexual women. So it's really all going together, and it's really all about masculinity and it's about these are two different threats to masculinity. And so, people are, well, I should say, men are responding really negatively to these two different types of threats.

# Task 4 – If you were …

As you can see, discrimination is not limited to restricted employment opportunities and prospects, it can also include the unfair psychological treatment that people receive in workplaces.

Watch this video (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVLKS-mzH1Q) and discuss the following scenario questions in groups.

If you were an employer of one of the LGBTQ interviewees shown in the video, what would you do to make the workplace a better one?

If you were a co-worker of one of the LGBTQ interviewees shown in the video, what would you do/say to this colleague and other colleagues to make the workplace a better one?

If you were a family member of one of the LGBTQ interviewees shown in the video, how would you show your support and empathy?

If you were one of the LGBTQ interviewees shown in the video, what would you do in the face of potential discrimination at your workplace?

## 3. ADVOCATING FOR GENDER EQUALITY

The Women’s Foundation in Hong Kong has been advocating for gender equality for women at the Hong Kong workplace for years. They are able to achieve some success in their advocacy for gender equality for working women in Hong Kong because they manage to gather strong evidence, identify stakeholders, publicise their ideas, and mobilise their support base to impact policy.

# Task 5 – Reading Comprehension

Read the history of The Foundation below:

Since our founding in 2004, there have been many impactful milestones in our work to advance gender equality and empower women and girls in Hong Kong.

The Women’s Foundation was established by a group of like-minded individuals that were passionate about improving the lives of women and girls in Hong Kong. Noticing that many organisations were helping women and girls but lacked research on the causes of inequality and service gaps, a group established The Women's Foundation as a research institute. Through conducting a series of research projects, findings that revealed service gaps in the NGO landscape informed its decision to expand into an NGO that also included programmes, education and advocacy. With research remaining a cornerstone, we have continued to build on this legacy -- refining our programmes for impact, expanding our advocacy efforts and employing a holistic approach to tackling gender barriers.

Below is a timeline summarising the milestones of the Foundation since it was founded in 2004mentioned in the passage above. Fill in the boxes below (a-d), using no more than THREE words for each answer.

# Task 6 – How to advocate effectively

The process of effective advocacy typically involves the following steps:

Source:

Cats-Baril, A (2022). A guide to being an effective advocate for gender equality. Constitution Assessment for Women’s Equality Series. https://www.idea.int/publications/catalogue/guide-being-effective-advocate-gender-equality

Summarise the above procedures by selecting and reporting the main features of the process and make comparisons where relevant. Write at least 150 words.

# Reminder - When you describe processes:

Detail each step in the advocacy process clearly;

Explain how the steps are connected and their purpose;

Use appropriate linking words to show the sequence of steps.

References

Capgemini. (2020, March 30). LGBT experiences at work. [Video]. YouTube.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVLKS-mzH1Q

Cats-Baril, A (2022). A guide to being an effective advocate for gender equality. Constitution Assessment for Women’s Equality Series. https://www.idea.int/publications/catalogue/guide-being-effective-advocate-gender-equality

Executive summary: The 2019 national school climate survey. (2020). In GLSEN (pp. 1-21).

https://www.glsen.org/sites/default/files/2020-10/NSCS-2019-Executive-Summary-English_1.pdf

New Economic Thinking. (2020, December 24). Understanding LGBTQ employment discrimination.

[Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvOoi3T9mMI

Vinney, C. (2023, April 14). Gender vs. Sexuality: What’s the difference? Verywellmind.

https://www.verywellmind.com/what-is-the-difference-between-gender-and-sexuality-5207899

The Women’s Foundation. (2025). Our history & milestones. https://twfhk.org/our-history-milestones/

Photographs

Fig 1:

Grey, A. (n.d.) [Photograph of a person holding a whiteboard with writing on it]. Unsplash.

https://unsplash.com/photos/IDxuUey3M5E


| Gender | Sexuality / Sexual Orientation |

| --- | --- |

| It is socially constructed and one's innermost concept of themselves as a man, a woman, and/or a nonbinary person. | It refers to who a person is attracted to and can include a plethora of orientations, such as bisexual, heterosexual, and homosexual.
[Note: Sexual fluidity is a related term that indicates a change of sexual orientation during a person’s lifetime.] |




| Gender | Sex |

| --- | --- |

| It is socially constructed and one's innermost concept of themselves as a man, a woman, and/or a nonbinary person. | It is biological and affected by hormones, chromosomes, and body structure. 
[Note: Some people’s bodies are not biologically male or female; people can be born intersex.] |




| Gender Identity | Gender Expression |

| --- | --- |

| It is internal and personal and may not be obvious to outsiders. It represents an inner part of a person’s sense of self. | It is the way that a person presents themselves through their external appearance and behavior (e.g., clothes and body language). |




| Background information of the participants | Background information of the participants |

| --- | --- |

| Number of students | 16,713 |

| Age range | 13-21 |

| Background | All 50 states of the USA plus a few other regions |

| Dominant gender identity | Cisgender female (41.6%) |

| Dominant sexual orientation | Gay or lesbian (40.4%) |




| Description of the hostile school climate | Description of the hostile school climate |

| --- | --- |

| Perception of school safety | Many LGBTQ students avoided school activities, missed school entirely, or had changed schools due to feeling unsafe or uncomfortable. |

| Anti-LGBTQ remarks | Negative remarks about gender expression and sexual orientation were received from classmates, teachers, and/or other school staff. |

| Harassment and assault | Many LGBTQ students were verbally and/or physically harassed due to their sexual orientation or gender expression. |




| Statements | TRUE / FALSE /
NOT GIVEN |

| --- | --- |

| The National School Climate Survey in 2019 included students from all 50 states of the USA. |  |

| Most participants in the survey identified as transgender. |  |

| LGBTQ students often skipped activities and classes due to safety concerns. |  |

| Anti-LGBTQ remarks were made only by classmates in the schools surveyed. |  |

| The survey found that most LGBTQ students experienced physical assault due to their gender identity. |  |




| 1. | Complete the table below with information about labour market patterns. Write no more than three words in each gap. | Complete the table below with information about labour market patterns. Write no more than three words in each gap. | Complete the table below with information about labour market patterns. Write no more than three words in each gap. | Complete the table below with information about labour market patterns. Write no more than three words in each gap. |

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

|  | Group | Earnings Compared to Straight Counterparts | Earnings Compared to Straight Counterparts | Field representation |

|  | Gay women | a. ___________ | a. ___________ | b. ____________________________ fields |

|  | Gay men | Lower | Lower | c. ____________________________  fields |

|  |  |  |  |  |

| 2. | What did Marina Gorsuch want to investigate about gay women? | What did Marina Gorsuch want to investigate about gay women? | What did Marina Gorsuch want to investigate about gay women? | What did Marina Gorsuch want to investigate about gay women? |

|  | How they are exempted from bias in male dominated fields
If they face the same behavioural prescriptions as straight women
If they behave like their male counterparts in the labour market | How they are exempted from bias in male dominated fields
If they face the same behavioural prescriptions as straight women
If they behave like their male counterparts in the labour market | How they are exempted from bias in male dominated fields
If they face the same behavioural prescriptions as straight women
If they behave like their male counterparts in the labour market | How they are exempted from bias in male dominated fields
If they face the same behavioural prescriptions as straight women
If they behave like their male counterparts in the labour market |

| 3. | What is one example of traditional masculine behaviour mentioned in the talk? Write no more than three words. | What is one example of traditional masculine behaviour mentioned in the talk? Write no more than three words. | What is one example of traditional masculine behaviour mentioned in the talk? Write no more than three words. | What is one example of traditional masculine behaviour mentioned in the talk? Write no more than three words. |

|  | ____________________________ | ____________________________ | ____________________________ | ____________________________ |

| 4. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. |

|  | Marina Gorsuch created ____________________________  CVs for her study. | Marina Gorsuch created ____________________________  CVs for her study. | Marina Gorsuch created ____________________________  CVs for her study. | Marina Gorsuch created ____________________________  CVs for her study. |

| 5. | What did Marina Gorsuch manipulate on the CVs? Write no more than three words. | What did Marina Gorsuch manipulate on the CVs? Write no more than three words. | What did Marina Gorsuch manipulate on the CVs? Write no more than three words. | What did Marina Gorsuch manipulate on the CVs? Write no more than three words. |

|  | Sex and ____________________________ | Sex and ____________________________ | Sex and ____________________________ | Sex and ____________________________ |

| 6. | How were perceived lesbian women treated in the study? | How were perceived lesbian women treated in the study? | How were perceived lesbian women treated in the study? | How were perceived lesbian women treated in the study? |

|  | Like perceived gay men
Like perceived straight men
Like perceived straight women | Like perceived gay men
Like perceived straight men
Like perceived straight women | Like perceived gay men
Like perceived straight men
Like perceived straight women | Like perceived gay men
Like perceived straight men
Like perceived straight women |

| 7. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. | Complete the sentence below using no more than three words. |

|  | Same sex couples tend to have more ____________________________  divisions of labour. | Same sex couples tend to have more ____________________________  divisions of labour. | Same sex couples tend to have more ____________________________  divisions of labour. | Same sex couples tend to have more ____________________________  divisions of labour. |

| 8. | Match each element of Marina Gorsuch’s study to its description: | Match each element of Marina Gorsuch’s study to its description: | Match each element of Marina Gorsuch’s study to its description: | Match each element of Marina Gorsuch’s study to its description: |

|  | Element of the study |  |  | Description of the study |

|  | A. Finite mixture model |  |  | Showed a strong discriminatory effect |

|  | B. 60% of male respondents |  |  | Identify latent classes in participants |

|  | C. Behavioural prescriptions |  |  | Faced by perceived heterosexual women |




| From 2004 |  |  |  | Current and continuous | Current and continuous | Current and continuous | Current and continuous |

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Commence as research institute | a. | Reveal service gaps in NGOs | b. | c. | d. | e. | Tackle barriers to gender equality |

